Octis, which was formerly known as
Reorg, is today's presenting sponsor on
Business Breakdowns. This is an
essential credit intelligence and data
provider. And they have grown to over
40,000 professionals across leading buy
firms, investment banks, law firms,
advisory firms. And what they're doing
is they're taking the human expertise,
which is so important in credit. They're
embedding it with AI, technology, data
and workflow tools. And that's going to
allow you to unlock all the things you
need, the truths to fuel that decisive
action that you need in the credit
markets. So head over to octis.com to
learn how they have taken this verified
intelligence platform, delivering it at
speed and giving you that complete
picture across the credit life cycle.
You can follow Octis on LinkedIn or X.
there. They will share breaking news and
exclusive coverage and you can find
links to everything in the show notes.
[Music]
>> This is Business Breakdowns.
Business Breakdowns is a series of
conversations with investors and
operators diving deep into a single
business. For each business, we explore
its history, its business model, its
competitive advantages, and what makes
it tick.
We believe every business has lessons
and secrets that investors and operators
can learn from and we are here to bring
them to you. To find more episodes of
breakdowns, check out join colossus.com.
All opinions expressed by hosts and
podcast guests are solely their own
opinions. Hosts, podcast guests, their
employers or affiliates may maintain
positions in the securities discussed in
this podcast. This podcast is
forformational purposes only and should
not be relied upon as a basis for
investment decisions.
This is Matt Russell and today we are
breaking down Montlair. You know their
down jackets, their stylized M logo.
It's the mix of style and substance that
blends into the brand history and
evolution of Monontlair. I was joined by
Chris Davies, investment manager at
Bailey Gford to cover Monontlair's
evolution, particularly in the hands of
Remma Rafini. and we get into the push
to define luxury outerw wear, extend
outward into other product categories,
and keep that core DNA of fashion and
function. This is a particularly
interesting episode for anybody
interested in the luxury market
generally and Monontlair's push to carve
out their own niche.
All right, Chris, excited to have you
here to cover Monontlair. It's a
product, a brand that I think most would
be familiar with, but maybe we can just
start out by covering an introduction to
the business itself. What does
Monontlair entail? And just a little bit
of an overview on the business itself to
kick off the conversation.
>> Thanks, Matt. Well, it's a pleasure to
be here. So Monontlair is a really
interesting breakthrough brand and I'm
going to come back to that idea of a
breakthrough brand a bit later on but
let's just deal with the basics first of
all. So it operates in the luxury
outerear market. So what on earth is
that? Well to put it really simply it's
a segment of the fashion industry that's
focused on really high-end outer
garments. So think coats and jackets and
other things that we all wear outside.
Lots of it is linked to the cold. Uh
that's generally where Monontlair has
made a name for itself. But there are
plenty of other brands here as well like
Canada Goose and Arcturix which people
will probably have heard of before. But
like other parts of the luxury business
generally we're dealing here with very
high quality products. We're dealing
with high quality customer experiences
and we're typically dealing with pretty
high price points. So I maybe try to sit
Monontlair in that context. So it was
made famous by its puffer jackets.
And if you think of most luxury brands,
they will typically have some kind of
iconic product or a collection that
they're associated with. If you think of
Hermes, you think of the Burkin bag or
the Kelly bag. Equally, if you think of
Cartiier in jewelry, for example, you'd
think of maybe the Trinity collection,
you know, you have those three
interlocking bands. Now, if you look at
the Birkin bags, prices could be like
$10,000 to $100,000 and way above that.
If you think of the Trinity collection
products, it could be prices getting as
high as $20,000.
So Monontlair has an iconic product. I
would say it's their Maya puffer jacket
and this was launched in 2009, but there
have been iterations of it in the past.
But basically, it's a very loud, so
typically bright colored jacket. It's
typically made out of very shiny nylon,
so it's very, very distinctive. You can
tell when someone's wearing one of these
things.
Various colors have been released since
the initial launch in 2009.
Some of them darker than others, some of
them a bit more garish than others. So
basically, it's this really iconic
product that they've come up with that
people will think of when they think of
Monontlair. And it's around that core
product that they've then built other
things. So like a lot of other brands
that have got these anchor products,
they've built other things like
knitwear, footwear, accessories, other
things because people don't just wear
jackets when they go outside, they wear
other things as well. So they very much
established themselves in this luxury
outear space, I think, via this really
unique core product. I think you tapped
into a lot of what makes Monontlair
interesting to me as this luxury player.
Their garments or their coats, jackets
do have a little bit of loudness to
them, you know, when someone is wearing
them. I'm always interested in the DNA
of luxury brands, the history, how did
they emerge into this category. So maybe
we can cover some of that, the past. I
know it goes back before 2009, many
decades. So maybe you could just cover
some of the history and what went into
Monontlair becoming the brand that it is
today.
>> That's right. The history does go back
some ways. I won't go through every
single year, but I tend to think of the
history in three phases if you like. So
if you go back to the early 1950s when
Monontlair was first established. So
it is founded in this village near
Grenobyl in France called Monstia
declaremon and this is where the name
comes from Mont Clair. So it is quite a
young brand in that sense. You think of
Chanel which I think was founded in 1910
maybe Hermes maybe goes back to the
1830s. The origins of Monontlair really
were making kit coats. I think they even
made some sleeping bags and tents and
stuff for people who worked in the
mountains, but also for mountaineers.
And in 1954,
a famous French mountaineer called
Leonel Terry discovers this brand, this
line of products, is impressed by the
quality and begins to collaborate with
Monontlair on this new line, the Leonol
Terry line. But also that year they kit
out this Italian expedition to K2.
And I think really that early stage in
the '50s was really all about building
those technical credentials. But it goes
a bit further than that. So if you
actually go into the late 1960s around
1968 when you have the Grenobyl winter
Olympics,
Monontlair is actually at this point
kitting out the French downhill ski
team. So that's first phase of the
company's history that I tend to think
about that that was really all about
building these technical credentials
which it still very much has a right to
claim today. The next phase which I
think is really important is basically
the 1980s.
So this is when Montlair came down from
the slopes to the streets. This is how
they tend to put it. If you were in
Milan around this time, you might have
seen youngsters hanging out around
sandwich shops and fast food
restaurants, they'd have been wearing
some pretty loud designer clothing. They
would have been wearing Timberland
boots, Ray-B band sunglasses, Levis's
jeans. They loved American pop culture,
motor scooters, fast food, pop music.
And actually the original crew of these
youngsters hung around a sandwich shop I
think called El Paninaro. And this is
basically where this subculture is born.
And it's called this Paninaro
subculture. And it's very much
associated with enjoying life,
expressing oneself, luxury consumption.
The cultural undercurrent was so strong
that actually the Pet Shop Boys sang a
song about this called Paninara which
they released in 1986 which is worth a
listen if anyone wants to get a flavor
of that sort of cultural millier.
>> We can dub it into the recording
perhaps.
>> Put it in the show notes definitely. So
this is like the second phase of the
company's history. It's quite different
to the first. It's much more fashion
oriented and that brings us on to the
third phase of the company. So by this
point you basically established that
Monontlair has these technical
credentials in performance in
mountaineering outerear but it also has
these credentials in fashion as well.
Now, that's an unusual combination and
it's something that was recognized by a
guy called Remo Ruffini who actually
starts working for them around the time
of the late '9s, early 2000s and ends up
buying the company and over the course
of the next 20 plus years basically
takes full advantage of this really
unique amalgamation of the technical and
the fashion and builds Montlair into
this gigantic successful fashion
powerhouse.
>> It's amazing how often when you look
back at history of luxury brands, it
does start with earning the credentials
and whatever space it may be with their
leather actually being used with the
horses or in the field with the watch
industry certainly with Rolex watches.
There's some overlap here with
Monontlair. When you think about the
brand today, obviously that street sale
is what I see at least on a day-to-day
basis. Would you say that is the primary
focus? Do they still keep that focus on
the actual slopes in the mountains and
that type of physical exertion type
wear? When you think about the brand as
a whole, how do you think they approach
that? So there are two brands actually
under the umbrella here which I'm going
to get to the other one later on but
it's called Stone Island but for
Monontlair they have these three pillars
to the brand. So the first is what they
call collection and this is the core
brand. It's the core products. It's the
Maya jackets. It's the bread and butter
of the business. But you also have these
two other pillars which are really
important as well. One is called
Grenobyl and the other is called genius.
Grenobyl is basically this kind of
strand of the Monontlair identity that
Remo Ruffini has pulled on. So it was
launched not as a separate identity by
any means but certainly as an extension
an expansion of Monontlair and this was
back in 2010 and it very much harks back
to the company's technical heritage. It
actually launched in New York I think at
a golf driving range on the Hudson River
on an old pier with this massive
scaffolding with 100 models standing on
it wearing Monontlair garments. So it it
was very much calling out the fact that
hang on there's a technical heritage
here but this is still very much a
fashion brand and what you've seen them
starting to do over the course of the
last sort of 10 15 years is gradually
open some of these more technical
leaning stores and I guess this has
culminated a bit more recently where
they've actually started to open
dedicated Grenobyl boutiques where you
take those technical products and you
can see these online by the way it's not
just something you have to go to a store
for you. You can go online and have a
look at the various products that they
have under that Grenobyl range, but it's
very much this deliberate reclaiming of
that technical heritage. The other one
is Genius. Now, Genius is really quite
interesting because first of all, it's
the newest of those three pillars. It
was brought in back in 2018
and it's kind of a platform. It's a
multi-designer platform. If you think of
the typical way that a luxury fashion
business would work, you would usually
have one creative director. Gucci is a
good example. How many creative
directors of Gucci could you name over
the years? Well, you've had people like
Tom Ford who did pretty well for
himself. Freda Gianini, I think came
after him. More recently, you've had
people like Aleandra Mle. But that model
is very much dependent on one
individual, how they think about the
brand, how they imagine the brand. And
you'll have fashion shows which then
reveal on a periodic basis what that
designer has come up with. Remma Ruffini
is not that keen on industry standards
and the usual way of doing things. And
part of the reason for this is that when
he bought Monontlair back in the early
2000s,
you already had some pretty big brands
out there in the world. So if you want
to try to compete with these, you've got
to do something that's really quite
different. And this really culminates in
the launch of Genius in 2018. And the
idea is that you just collaborate with a
whole bunch of different designers
during the course of an individual year.
So I think so far they've probably
collaborated with 80 plus different
designers over the history of Genius so
far. But what it does is basically
generates hype and excitement and
interest. These are limited edition
timelited collections that they develop
with individual designers and they've
actually blown this up to a much larger
scale. So actually if you go back last
year they had this incredible
extravaganza in Shanghai where they
basically took Genius and in one go had
10 different designers collaborating in
this old shipyard which had been
completely revamped. It was a bit like
Disneyland for fashion designers and
they had 8,000 people attend. It was
live streamed by nearly 60 million
people.
And so you had these 10 different areas
where these different designers would
interact with the Monontlair brand,
reimagine, reinterpret it. So you had
one section which was Donald Glover with
an agricultural theme. Another explore
the intersection between fashion and AI.
So that was really interesting to really
understand how it works. You need to see
it as part of a flywheel. It very much
drives interest and excitement for the
brand. So those are the three pillars I
would say the the core collection,
Grenobyl and then you've also got genius
as well.
>> And I think you've covered a decent
amount about what makes Rafini different
but are there other things that you
would point to just in terms of him
taking over this business which was
struggling at the time. He was
opportunistic in terms of the time that
he acquired it. You've described some of
the ways that he's left his fingerprints
on it, but anything else that would get
into the ethos of Rafini because he does
seem like such a primary character
within this business story. Oh yeah, he
is the infrasario
in this case for sure. So he's the
chairman and CEO. Monontlair doesn't
have a creative director, but he's like
the driving force on the creative side
as well. He is restless. He is
constantly innovating.
looking for ways to reinvent Monontlair.
I've heard him say in the past, we
should never compromise, never get bored
so we don't bore others. And this as a
philosophy has worked pretty well. So I
think Monontlair had about $45 million
of revenue when Ruffini took over. He
grew that 10fold by 2012, which was the
year before the IPO. I think to really
get into his head, you need to go back
and look at his history. So actually his
parents were involved in the fabric
industry a long time ago. So there are
stories of him, you know, aged six,
seven, sitting around the kitchen table
talking about fabrics and styles and the
like. He said to us in a recent meeting
that he used to have this light blue
Monontlair jacket when he was a kid and
he loved this jacket and it really
planted a seed for him his career when
he went to work for his father's
business. So his father set up this
business called Jan Franco Ruffini in
the early 1980s. He actually moved out
to the east coast of the US and Remo
Ruffini actually went to work for him
for a while but he was traveling around.
He explored the east coast of the US and
this was around a time back in the 1980s
when the sort of preppy lifestyle was
taking off very much oriented around
quality clothing, lots of links to
sailing and tennis and these sorts of
things. And it's the sort of style
that's really survived and people even
today can still figure out what preppy
actually means. But that inspired him
and he came back to Italy, went back
home to Komo and basically set up these
two brands of his own. One of which was
called New England. And he describes
this period as basically a bit like
going back to school. Now these two
brands were pretty successful. He sold
both of them to a private company called
Stephanel. This was in about 2000.
Stephanel specializes in knitwear, but
this gave him some liquidity. Now, I
think I mentioned earlier he was working
as a creative consultant for the holding
company which owned Monontlair at the
time and they were really struggling
with the fallout of the TMT crash. We're
just looking to sell and so Ram Rafini
is basically in the right place at
exactly the right time and acquires this
brand for about a million dollars in
2003 which is a real bargain. He
acquires the operations in 2005 with the
help of a private equity company. The
operations are valued at about€1.2
billion euros and you basically have
this succession of private equity
investors being involved. The likes of
Carlilele for example. Now the IPO was
originally planned to be around 2010
2011 but for those of you who will
remember what was happening around that
time in Europe the chat was all about
Brexit not Brexit which people have been
talking about so much since 2016 we had
that referendum in the UK Europe felt at
the time like it was falling apart.
There were all sorts of problems in
Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece, Spain.
So the private equity firm that was
involved basically decides, you know
what, actually we're just going to sell
to another private equity company. So
this is URIO and the IPO is pushed out,
but it eventually happens. It happens in
2013. The share price pops, I think 40%
or something on the day. It's an
incredibly successful IPO and then
private equity gradually kind of sells
down and you get to fully listed
Monontlair. So Rafini is still very much
invested. most of his wealth and he's a
multi-billionaire by now. Most of his
wealth is tied up in the business. So by
the end of last year, his holding
company actually held around 16% of the
company. He's still around. He's still
really important. He's a driving force.
He's only 63, so he's kind of in the
luxury world, still a bit of a spring
chicken. If you go and look at Bernard
Arno over at LVMH, who's been incredibly
successful in the luxury business, he's
in his late 70s. He's just got an
extension to stick around in his
capacity as as chairman into his 80s and
he's fit as a fiddle. He's still young.
I don't think he's going anywhere
anytime soon.
>> Yeah, our nose's got his crop of the
next generation of our nose getting
prepared in the force, but I don't see
him leaving anytime soon. So, can you
get into just we've covered some of the
backstory, we've covered the interesting
history about how it's evolved. What
does it look like today just from a
numbers perspective? If you can paint
the picture about size and any relative
data points, I think that would be
really helpful.
>> Sure. So last year, if you look at the
whole Monontlair Group, it made 3.1
billion euros of revenue. So that's
quite a substantial growth rate from
that $45 million I told you about at the
outset of Rufini's involvement. Now, the
lion's share of that is the Monontlair
brand. I mentioned earlier they did that
Stone Island acquisition, which I know
we're going to talk about because it's
so important for thinking about the
future and capital allocation generally.
But the lion share of the revenues
really go to Monontlair. That's about
2.7 billion euros. Stone Island is the
rest of just over 400 million, about 13%
of group revenue. So to kind of put
Monontlair in context as a group, it's
now bigger than Burberry and fast
catching up to Gucci, which I think did
just under 8 billion euros last year.
And if you look at the sort of
longerterm performance over the decade
to the end of last year, the top line
compounded at just over 16% roughly the
same for operating profit and earnings
per share for the five years to the end
of last year is about 14% topline. And
that is pretty incredible when you think
about the fact that the pandemic
happened in the middle of that. So you
basically had two ski seasons kind of
wiped out. And China, which is a really
important market for Monontlair, went
through this horrible period of really
extended lockdown. So I think that's
pretty impressive from a revenue growth
standpoint. As far as margins are
concerned, I mean the operating margin
of the business, the EBIT margin is
really hovering around 30% and it's been
there or thereabouts for the last 4
years. But actually, if you go back to
2012, since then they've been above 28%
every year since 20120, which obviously
was a tough year for reasons we all
know, and they did just under 26% in
that year, which was actually pretty
decent. So actually when I look back at
our internal meeting notes minutes from
discussing this company which we've been
following for the best part of a decade
one of the big doubts was really about
margins. How do you maintain margins
that are this high? You guys have
interviewed one of my colleagues Mark
Urkart talking about Hermes and actually
if you look at Hermes's financial
outputs the operating margins have been
in the low 40s. LVMH, if you look at
their fashion, leather goods business,
that's where Louis Vuitton sits. I mean,
they've been in the sort of high 30s,
low 40s. So, Monontlair is in pretty
good company, I would say.
>> Yeah, it's interesting. Another episode
we did was on Gucci where you've seen
the volatility of the margins and at one
point being at 40% getting as low as
into the teens. But, it's interesting to
see that type of durability
specifically. Before we move on too much
further, I do want to touch on the Stone
Island acquisition and the brand. I
mentioned before we recorded in one of
our previous conversations, I did not
appreciate that they owned Stone Island.
It's a brand that I've always had some
affinity for and wondered if one day it
will make this revival to the masses.
And I'm just curious what went into that
deal. How does it fit into the broader
Monontlair strategy? and anything else
you think is relevant to that piece albe
it small as a percentage of the whole
but to your point is a potential growth
engine
>> it's a much younger brand than
Monontlair if you go back to 1982 that's
when it's founded by a guy called Masimo
Austi
is based in Ravarino which is just north
of Bologna
now he made a name for himself as an
experimentalist he experimented with
lots of different types of dye different
fabrics and he sells the business to an
Italian businessman called Carlo
Revetti. This is in the early 1990s.
Reti's family roots actually are very
much in the textile industry in Italy.
We trace back to the second half of the
19th century. He's got deep expertise
here. He knows the industry. He knows
the business. So, he owned the business
really since then. And to get to your
question, which is how this all came
about, it was actually their sons,
Kraveti and Roma Ruffini's sons, who
struck up a conversation and suggested
that their fathers get together and
start talking about the possibility of
an acquisition at some point. So, Rafini
had known Reti for 40 years or
something. He'd been an admirer of Stone
Island. He knew the business well. They
get together and eventually agree that
it would make sense for Monontlair to
buy Stone Island. So, there's this
two-stage process which begins in
December of 2020. It's finished by
February or March in 2021.
So, Monontlair announces it's going to
buy Sportsear Company and this is the
parent company of Stone Island valued at
1.15 billion euros. So that's roughly
just under five times sales, just under
14 times expected EBIDA for 2021.
70% is basically bought from Carl Reetti
and his family holding company.
Monontlair pays 50% cash, 50% stock for
that. And then the other 30% is bought
from Teisek, which is Singapore's
sovereign wealth fund, and they bought
out for €345 million in cash. So now
Monontlair owns the whole thing. Revetti
sticks around for a few years. He's on
the board. He has since departed the
company. He's no longer involved,
although he did actually appear in a
recent Stone Island advertising
campaign. So, he hasn't gone very far.
To maybe put some context to Stone
Island, as I mentioned earlier, it's
around 400 million euros of revenue,
which is a big increase from the 240
million it did in 2020. And around that
sort of time, Rafini said he was aiming
to really double sales within 5 years.
So, they're getting there. And just to
revisit this point I made earlier about
Stone Island being a bit of a diamond in
the rough. The average selling points
here, average selling prices are
probably 30 to 35% below Monontlair.
It's got a big exposure to wholesale.
So, I think maybe 80% of the business at
the time. So this is where you basically
have an intermediary that's buying the
stuff from you. You have to sacrifice
some of your margin for that. So the
retail exposure, the direct to consumer
exposure is pretty low. And Monontlair
had been there, by the way. They'd been
there when Rufini took over. He went on
this long journey really tilting the
business away from wholesale and towards
retail towards that direct to consumer
channel. The other main differences with
Stone Island are first of all its
demographic is quite different. So it
really skews towards the male
demographic.
It is also younger, slightly younger
demographic. So Ruffini sees this as a
way to speak to us to a different
segment of the population, maybe a
younger segment of the population, but
it's also really massively exposed to
Europe. So, Rafini sees this really as
as a huge opportunity because it
underindexes to Asia and it underindexes
to the US. So, he sees opportunities
there. So, he's basically bought this
thinking, you know what, I have turned
Monontlair into this incredible brand,
but I can see some things in Stone
Island that might actually mean I can do
the same thing again. Yeah, it's
interesting when you see a playbook
emerge for Monontlair, that wholesale
versus direct to consumer split. Has
that shifted over time? And just if you
compare it to the 80%ish wholesale for
Stone Island, what does that look like
for the Monontlair brand specifically?
>> Yeah. So today they're almost the
opposite, which is interesting. So
Monontlair's been on a bit of a journey
here. So if you look last year, so this
is 2024
at the group revenues, basically 80% of
the group revenues were direct to
consumer. But if you look at the
Monontlair brand itself, that's more
advanced. That's 86%.
Stone Island is 52%.
So it's way, way, way behind where
Monontlair is, but it is moving in the
right direction. So if you look at where
it was at the end of 2021 for example,
Stone Island's direct to consumer was
only really 29%. So it's moved quite
materially. The geographic exposures
moved as well. So again going back to
2021 cuz that's the first year that they
probably got their hands on this asset.
You had at that point 77% of revenues
coming from EMA. A third of that region
was Italy. Asia was just 13%. Last year
was down to 67% and Asia was up at 26%.
So he's already making these pretty
serious moves in the business.
>> Yeah, it's quite interesting. Getting
back to the outerware market,
specifically as a luxury market. You
mentioned some of the brands that might
be considered in this category like a
Canada Goose, Arctics. I would even
think about people considering a
Patagonia jacket for certain things. How
do you define the segment? Whether it's
from a size perspective, from a
competitive forces perspective, just
thinking about where Montlair dominates
or has significant amount of
competition. I think both of those are
actually really hard questions. I'm
going to have a go at answering them
because I think it is important to
really try to think about what
Monontlair is doing and why these growth
rates might actually be sustainable over
the long run. So if you were to look at
the market at a high level and try to
really define it, let's go right up to
the highest level we can. The luxury
market, I've heard estimates saying that
that is maybe $1.5 trillion. Now that's
huge. That covers everything. That's
watches, it's jewelry, it's cars, it's
yachts, it's spirits, it's leather
goods, it's fashion, etc. That's
useless. That tells us nothing. Even if
you calculate what percentage of this
market is Monontlair, well, it's going
to be tiny. That doesn't really tell you
very much. So, if you're trying to
figure out what is a sensible estimate
for what this market size is today, I
have tried to dig around to find some
reasonable estimates. And the best I've
found is a company called Perfect
Moment, which is a small luxury skiare
and lifestyle brand founded in France in
the 1980s. And I think they published
some numbers saying that they think that
the global luxury outerear market is
probably about 16 billion. And that was
back in 2022, growing 6 or 7%. Now, I
don't know if that's right. I guess if
you were to look at some of the big
names here. So look at Monontlair brand
which was doing $3 billion of revenue
last year roughly. You've got Canada
Goose which maybe was $960 million to
the financial year at the end of March
last year. Then you've got Arcturix
which I think its owner actually claimed
that it had surpassed about $2 billion
in sales for the brand last year. So
let's call that maybe 6 billion between
the three of them. But that's not the
whole market because there are a whole
bunch of other players in there. You
will have other luxury brands which in
some way participate in this market. But
maybe 16 billion as a whole for that
market is not a ridiculous number. I
make a couple of observations on this.
First of all, you're trying to think
about how big this market is going to be
in the next 5 to 10 years. There's an
element of these companies almost
deciding the size of their own market.
And that's a dynamic which is quite rare
and quite unique to luxury businesses
because you have this really perverse
setup whereby when you've established
this brand with great heritage and
credentials, you can put prices up and
that almost helps you grow the business
regardless of what you're doing with
volumes. Luxury, I guess, is also just
much more visible than it used to be.
And that's not necessarily a bad thing.
I mean, if you control the scarcity of
your products really well, but it's
arguably much easier than ever to create
that gap between demand. Think back to
that Shanghai event. All the hype you
can generate through social media and
supply. Exploiting that gap is really
what you're doing when you're putting up
prices. I think on a high level as well,
you've basically got more consumers
around the world who can afford luxury
than they used to be. I know that's a
really simplistic argument, but if you
had bet on people liking nicer things as
they get wealthier over the last 30
years, you'd probably have done all
right, whether you'd invested in this
brand or that brand that did a good job.
You'd have made quite a lot of money.
So, I actually think that the growth
rate and the size of the market is in
Monontlair's hands here. This is not
like we're going out into the world and
coming up with something basically
trying to take share away from another
player. This is something new. It's a
new phenomenon. And I think that's
really underscored by the fact that they
say I think it's 60% or something of
their customers are new customers. So
they're still very much in this early
phase of growth.
>> And there's a foundation of quality in
the product. What does that mean for
outerwear specifically Monontlair? If I
think about some of the other brands,
there is both materials and process.
Sometimes weighted towards more
materials or more process depending on
what the brand is. How would you define
that and just what makes up the quality
of a Monontlair jacket?
>> Yeah. So, I tend to think of the quality
for most luxury brands in two ways
really. So, one is actually the quality
of the product itself.
And there are many different strands to
that. There's the history, the heritage,
there's the actual craft that's gone
into it. The touch, the feel, the smell
if you're dealing with fragrances. And
then there's the experience. And that, I
think, is a really crucial part of any
luxury brand. You need people to feel
like they're experiencing something.
This is something that's really special
and unique. Now on the product quality
side, Monontlair has this really high
standard when it comes to thinking about
the down that goes into its jacket. So
this is white goose down that Monontlair
uses and these standards are really
really strict. So it has this special
down integrity system and traceability
protocol which sounds very complicated
and very scientific and in some ways it
actually is. for example, they actually
do have a third party audit that's
basically testing the DNA of some of the
down to make sure that the species is
right. But to go maybe a level deeper on
the quality of the down itself. So
you've got various standards around fill
power. So if you think about the way in
which the down is clumped together, the
way it's put into a jacket, there's
various high standards around ensuring
that you've got the right amount of down
occupying a cubic inch after it's been
compressed. There's actually a lot of
detail about this online.
>> Yes, we had a very cold winter here in
the New York area and I went down the
rabbit hole of researching the different
types of down insulation, duct down,
goose. There are rabbit holes to go
down. So, I would agree with you there.
>> There definitely are. I'm desperately
trying to avoid going down one. But
basically, with fill power, it's how
many cubic in 1 oz of down occupies
after it's been compressed. So, higher
fill power basically means better
insulation and better loft, which is
basically how much space 1 oz of down
occupies when it's expanded. So, higher
loft means better warmth to weight
ratio. So, it's basically more effective
at trapping warm air. And you can
measure fill power. 300 to 500 is
generally seen as lower quality. 700
plus is higher quality. That's the down
that usually comes from more mature
birds. It's got excellent warmth to
weight ratio. And that's the down that
Monontlair is really focused on getting
into its jackets. And they will go to
extreme length to make sure that the
jackets are perfect. So avoiding
clumping, trying to avoid cold spots,
all this kind of stuff, which is
incredible. But you've also got this
product quality notion extending beyond
materials. It's relevant for the animals
themselves as well. So they've got very
strict standards around how you treat
the geese whose down you are harvesting.
So there's a complete ban here on what
they call live plucking. That is just
completely unacceptable here. So they
use this protocol. they've got a third
party auditor which makes sure that
they're following these standards. So
that I think is really integral to
thinking about the down and again it
speaks to that technical heritage. And
then on the customer experience side
which is the other really important
aspect of the quality here. Think of
some of the other great brands out
there. One example be Panerai which is a
famous watch brand which is owned by
Swiss group Rishmon. If you're a top
client there, you'll get invited to
private factory tours in Switzerland.
You'll get the chance to buy maybe
limited edition watches with engraving
options. It makes you feel like you're
part of the brand narrative. Or if you
go to Louis Vuitton, if you happen to be
a regular customer, you'll have a sales
associate that remembers your birthday,
that knows your past purchases, this
sort of thing. So, it's really feeling
like you're actually quite special as a
client, not a consumer. I've been to a
few Monontlair stores now. I remember
visiting their Galleria store in Milan.
Last time I was out there meeting
Monontlair and they've got this really
special secluded area upstairs which is
for their special clients. They've got
all modern technologies that help you
trace customers so you can try to create
one identity and match that up across
the footprint. And I also went walking
around the store and you know just
picking things up, having a look,
feeling different products and there was
a really diligent employee following
behind me who was just putting
everything back neat and tidy. If I were
to do that in another bog standard
retailer here in the UK, that just would
not happen. So there's this attention to
detail. They're obsessed with the
presentation side of things as well. And
also I mentioned the Shanghai event last
year, but the stores are also quite
unique. Particularly the flagship stores
where the architecture tends to be
really quite special, but also the
inside of these stores is different
wherever you go. I mean, the Galleria
store in Milan, it feels a bit like an
art gallery, whereas there's another in
Tokyo which has this LED facade that
mimics snowfall. So, it's a bit like
being in this giant snow globe. So, it's
very experiential. Those two strands I
think are really really important and
those two things I think Montlair does
incredibly well.
>> I love hearing about the experience
examples. Those are just always so
interesting to me. You covered the
financial overview quite well
previously, but on that point of
something like the down supply and the
cost associated with that, is there
anything that they do to manage the risk
of having an under supply of materials
or anything else that would be a risk
from the cost side of the spectrum?
>> Yeah. So I think with a lot of luxury
brands in Italy and also in France as
well, you've seen Hermes do this over
time. You've seen them vertically
integrate. They've started to buy up
local supply to ensure that they've got
that access when they need it. So I mean
Monontlair does have a very strong
relationship with its suppliers. I don't
think they're quite as vertically
integrated as some of these other
Italian brands. As it stands today, they
have got very strict rules about the
supply side, particularly on quality.
But in terms of access, they haven't
actually had any problems to date. With
any luxury brand, you've got to manage
the demand side of the equation very
carefully. So, I don't know, let's think
of an example. Think of Ferrari. The
founder of Ferrari used to talk about
the idea of providing one less car than
demand. So you're never quite meeting
that demand. Now if you look at the
number of units that Ferrari have sold.
In 2019 it was just over 10,000. Last
year it was just under 14,000. They've
grown a bit but not that much. They
found other ways to grow. It's been
through price and mix and selling
special editions and the like. So I
think for Monontlair, you're never going
to get this situation where they are
really going to flood the market with
lots and lots of inventory. They're
really carefully trying to manage how
much they're selling. So the whole
commercial strategy is based on the
principle of scarcity. That's basically
how they think. It's such a fun economic
equation for the luxury market to think
about in terms of just being appropriate
about the amount of scarcity that you
have within the business. And I guess
that answers my other question just
thinking through the financial model
where risks might exist from the
inventory management side. I think when
you're managing to demand, you probably
have a limitation on that. But are there
other things like inventory management,
turnover, things that get cash caught up
inside the business that you would point
to as either a risk or something that
they manage particularly well?
>> The management on the inventory, the
working capital side of things has
actually been really very impressive
over time. 2020 was a tough year for
pretty much everyone, but not many
people saw the pandemic coming. So I
mean if you look over the long term
these guys have been making free cash
flow margins the mid20s and if you look
at free cash flow to ebad conversion
over the past 5 years they've averaged
about 61% which is pretty impressive. So
there haven't really been any signs that
they've been struggling to manage all of
this. This comes back to the whole
commercial strategy of really carefully
managing supply so that you're not
overstocking the market because for
luxury companies volume can be a driver
of growth and it is in lots of cases but
price is also really really important.
If you're putting prices up or you're
changing the mix of your collection
slightly so it favors slightly higher
price point products that is just free
money from a profit perspective. It
doesn't require any more fiddling around
with the inventory or anything like
that. But companies can be quite extreme
when it comes to managing those rare
situations where you do find that you
end up with too much inventory. So I
remember and going back to Rishmon which
owns Cartier. It owns Van Clee. So two
of the most famous jewelry brands in the
world but also has all these watches of
the traditional variety. We're not
talking Apple watches here. talking the
timeless pieces that get passed on from
one generation to the next. They went
through a bit of trouble in their
watches business back in 2016, 2017. And
between 2016 and 2018, they basically
went out and bought back, I think it was
half a billion euros worth of inventory
from the retail channel and destroyed it
or recycled it. Monair hasn't had to do
that at all yet. I like to think that
these days with all the software that
you can get that helps you to manage on
what is really an omni channel business
that it's much easier to figure out what
needs to be in each location in order to
satisfy demand rather than sitting on
huge piles of inventory all over the
place. But you're right, it's a risk and
you can never completely rule it out. I
think back to Adidas and Kanye West and
how that relationship completely fell
apart and how Adidas was left with an
enormous pile of unsold inventory which
ended up looking pretty toxic because
Kanye West had these increasingly
strange moments and it was damaging the
brand and so on and so forth. So yeah,
it can be a risk. It's an interesting
dynamic and then Rishmont proving the
extreme of how you can manage that
dynamic in the case that something does
go wrong. Having that all in mind,
impressive management of the cash flow
conversion when you think about capital
allocation broadly you have an example
of acquiring Stone Island. Maybe there's
an opportunity to be a luxury house over
time with multiple more brands versus
reinvesting back into the business or
allocating to shareholders. How do you
think about their capital allocation
framework based on what they've said and
your own interpretation?
>> The priority at the moment really is
investing in the business they have
today. So, it's so early on still.
There's so much left to do and we'll
maybe get on to talk about some of those
growth opportunities that they've got in
the future, but there are still lots of
them and they're still generating very
attractive returns on capital. So if
you're sitting there with a business
that's able to do that and the runway is
long, it's absolutely right that your
top priority is really reinvesting into
the business. What does that mean? That
means opening new stores. It means you
are cultivating your brand. It means
you're investing in marketing. It means
you're investing in these crazy
off-the-wall events that Rufini is
trying to bring in all over the place to
make sure that Monontlair and Stone
Island are right at the cutting edge.
So, I think they're going to keep doing
that for years and years and years to
come. I don't think we're anywhere near
the end of that reinvestment story. And
I think for any company really, if
you're a long-term investor, the best
ones to find are the ones that can just
keep reinvesting capital at high rates
of return well above your cost of
capital for a long long time. And Bailey
Gford has been very fortunate to find a
few of these companies. We've already
talked about Hermes a few times. I mean,
that's been owned by some of my
colleagues for over 20 years, and it's
been an incredible success story. the
acquisition side of things. I tend to
see Stone Island as a bit of a one-off.
Now, I'm not going to say that they'll
never do another acquisition ever again.
They've played it down somewhat. I don't
think Rufini is like hugely keen on the
idea of building a big Italian luxury
conglomerate to stare down the French,
the likes of Kerring and LVMH. Never say
never though. I think for now his
priority really is going to be
reinvesting in the business. They pay
dividends as well. They're pretty
modest. I wouldn't say it's a big part
of the story. Maybe acquisitions at some
point in the future. I mean, Stone
Island, remember, was the only deal
they've ever done. It was the only
acquisition.
>> And you mentioned growth opportunities
from here. What would you point to as
those main levers of growth?
>> I mentioned earlier that you've got
these
strands of the Monontlair brand. You've
got Grenobyl collection and genius. So I
think the opportunity there is more of
the same. Grenobyl however I think is a
bit earlier on. I think there's a really
interesting opportunity there to start
building out more and more of these
stores. For example, this big show in
Korvel back in March. So this is a
luxury ski resort town. It was the
second big showcase of the Grenobyl
brand. I think that's got legs. So, I
suspect they're probably going to be
doing more of the Grenobyl stuff. Genius
is that really powerful flywheel. Again,
they'll keep on collaborating, keep
coming up with these new and innovative
ways of reimagining the Monontlair
brand. And that will drive lots of
interest in the collection. And it's
interesting actually when you look at
some of those periods where Genius has
been a bit quieter, actually the core
business has grown a little bit slower.
So you can see that it is an important
thing to keep pressing on with. There's
a big opportunity in the US. Monontlair
is really underindexed there. So roughly
14% of sales come from the US. That is
quite a bit lower than most of the other
big luxury houses which tend to be north
of 20%. So they're actually working on
this right now. Various things going on
here. they've probably been a bit slow
to move to the direct to consumer retail
model. I think they're trying to speed
up that reduction in reliance on
wholesale partners like Nordstrom and
Sachs and so on which have tended to
dominate the US business. So there's a
shift definitely going on there. They're
opening more stores. They've got this
really big flagship store that's about
to open on New York's Fifth Avenue which
is home to lots of other famous flagship
stores. Armani, Cartiier, Harry Winston,
Louis Vuitton. Again, they'll be in very
good company there. That's going to be
their biggest flagship store I think in
the world and that's going to open in
the US. But I think if you look at the
East Coast and the West Coast, they're
probably more penetrated, I would say,
than everything in the middle. So, it's
interesting to me that they only
recently, a couple of years ago, opened
their first dedicated boutique in
Dallas. There is a big gap. I think they
need to address in terms of growing
brand awareness in a lot of these states
in the middle of the US. So I think
they're only just getting going there
really. There's a long long runway to
explore there. It's worth touching on
Asia and China because this is a really
important part of the business. I mean
Asia was about half of the group's
revenues last year. China's been a bit
of a difficult market recently for lots
of brands. We're starting to see some
real signs of recovery coming through
for Monontlair. But the long term is
really what matters to us and what we
see from Monontlair is a huge commitment
to that market. Obviously the Shanghai
event was one event, but it was massive.
Every year they had this genius
presentation where they put out the hint
of what we're doing that they actually
moved out to China for the first time.
Again, breaking the mold somewhat. So
they're going to be doing a lot more of
that. They're going to invest heavily in
China, but we're still in the foothills
of growth there. And they've got a
really interesting organization in
China, which is really digital first.
It's really client oriented. They
actually see it internally as run in
quite a unique way. They've got somebody
representing that business on the exec
committee as well. And one thing they
said to me was we could learn something
from what we do in China in our other
businesses. So, China and Asia more
broadly, I think is going to be really
interesting. And Stone Island, this is
possibly the second act. It's the what
comes next. And we talked about a lot of
the growth drivers there. The growing
direct to consumer, your price points
could be growing over time. I can see
how that brand possibly splits into
different pillars itself. So, for
example, they've got a range called
Ghost, which is more of a subtle,
quieter version of the brand, which is
not a quiet brand, Stone Island by any
means. So, I think there's room there,
and you're starting to see some of that
come through. So, if you look at last
year, for example, for Stone Island as a
whole, the top line actually shrank 1%.
Now, if you look under the bonnet or the
hood, as you North Americans say, Asia
grew 23%. And again, Stone Islands
barely got going there. It's much much
earlier than Montlair is. Direct to
consumer across the board grew 23%,
wholesale fell 19%. So that shift is
ongoing and it's still in the midst of
that unfolding, but it's going to end at
some point and the baton will be very
much passed to retail and then it'll be
over to them to really drive growth. So
it'll be interesting to see how that
works. But I can see that really
starting to come through as they build
out their business in Asia, they build
out a business in North America. I think
that's going to be really interesting as
well.
>> And within that context, I mean, what
risks stand out to you when you think
about main risks that exist within the
business? What stands out for Montlair?
>> Yeah, I think with any fashion business,
you have to have a healthy skepticism
about the long-term sustainability of
the business. Fashion can be quite
violently cyclical. So, we mentioned
Gucci a few times. They had some
incredible years under Aleandra Mi as
creative director that came to an end a
couple of years ago. So, they've had a
really, really difficult period. I think
there's that cyclical element to it.
Now, I've got quite a lot of faith in
Monontlair because they've got genius
because they're constantly staying
relevant and fresh
that you can actually fend that off. The
obsession with avoiding the boredom of
your clients, I think that's really
quite powerful. Another thing that
worries me is when you are, as a lot of
these genius collaborators are operating
at the edges of experimental fashion,
there are dangers. We've seen various
examples of this over the years. I don't
want to pick on Gucci all the time, but
it's one that comes to mind. If you go
back to 2019, they introduced a sweater
that was criticized for basically
resembling blackface. So, this sweater
which came up over the mouth and it
almost had this gap for your mouth and
these red lines where your lips would
be. And they did this during Black
History Month, which in hindsight, of
course, was an extraordinarily silly
thing to do. I'm sure they wouldn't do
that again if they had their time over.
You could actually look at Monontlair
itself. There was quite a controversial
collection back in 2016 when Tom Brown,
who was a designer that they were
working with at the time, basically had
these models wearing what looked like
military or camouflage inspired clothes
at a fashion show not long after the
terrorist attacks in Paris in November
of that year, which were absolutely
terrible. People died. It was awful. So
that was regarded by some people, a lot
of French people as really very
distasteful. So that's a risk as well.
I'll give you two more. One would be the
supply chain. We've talked about this,
but there is huge risk here if you get
this wrong. And there's been lots of
scrutiny in the press recently,
particularly companies like Dior getting
into hot water because their
manufacturing arm was implicated in
labor exploitation and it became clear
that there were big flaws in their audit
and oversight process. That's a big
risk. And the other one I guess would be
Ruffini. He is so important to this
story. Now we've met a number of people
around him over the years. Some very
impressive people like Luchiano Santel
who is like his right-hand man, Roberto
Eggs, Gino Fisani. There are lots of
really impressive people who've come to
Monontlair from other really big brands
over the years. It's a really deep
bench. It's an experienced bench, but
there is a kind of magic stardust to
Rufini and he is important and I think
if he got hit by a bus tomorrow, I'd
probably be quite worried. Fingers
crossed. Of course, he is in great
health for many, many years to come. The
question for us would be around
succession. I think he said at the end
of last year, I would love it if my sons
would take over the business. And I
think one of his sons actually does work
at Stone Island, so it might happen at
some point, but it's clearly a risk.
He's important. He matters. He's a
massive driving force.
>> Key man.
>> Yeah, exactly. It's key man risk.
Exactly.
>> Well, this has been fascinating diving
into a new niche of the luxury market.
We finished the conversations with the
key lessons that you can take away. What
stands out from Monontlair as a key
lesson that you might be able to apply
elsewhere?
>> That's a great question. I think protect
your brand. The brand should be
basically at the center of everything
you do. Every decision you make should
be forcing you to ask yourself, "What
does this do to my brand?" And this is
what Rufini is obsessed with. I remember
seeing an advert actually at an airport
recently, a different brand. It was a
watch brand, Pate Phipe. And the tagline
was something like you merely look after
it for the next generation. You never
actually own it. I think that's true for
all luxury brands. The stewardship is so
important because you're passing this on
to either the next generation of the
family or at some point maybe
professional management and you've got
to be absolutely sure that you've done
everything to strengthen that brand to
avoid it being caught up in scandals,
bismerged in some way. So that to me is
one of the vital lessons here. It's
being obsessed with the quality of the
brand and being willing to actually not
do things. What are the things that we
are willing to give up in order to
maintain the brand equity? They give you
the example earlier of Rishmon buying
back all of that inventory. They
described it as an investment in the
brand, not a loss.
>> I love it. It's a great lesson that
certainly applies here and to the
broader luxury market. This has been
fascinating, Chris. Thank you very much
for joining us.
>> Thank you, Matt. Cheers.
To find more episodes of breakdowns
ranging from Costco to Visa to Madna or
to sign up for our weekly summary, check
out join colossus.com. That's j o i n o
ssus.com.
[Music]